#Argentina
In accordance with articles 96 and 12 of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, any provisions of article 11, article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Argentine Republic.

#Armenia
“1. Pursuant to Article 95 of the Convention, the Republic of Armenia declares that it will not apply the Article 1, subparagraph (1) (b) of the Convention to the parties that declare not to be bound by the Article 1, subparagraph (1) (b) of the Convention.2. Pursuant to Articles 12 and 96 of the Convention, the Republic of Armenia declares that any provision of Article 11, Article 29 or Part II of this Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Republic of Armenia.”

#Belarus
The Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, in accordance with articles 12 and 96 of the Convention declares that any provision of article 11, article 29 or Part II of this Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of inten- tion to be made in any form other than in writing does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Byelorussian SSR.

#Canada


#Chile
The State of Chile declares, in accordance with articles 12 and 96 of the Convention, that any provision of article 11, article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by mutual agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any other form than in writing, does not apply where any party has its place of business in Chile.

#China
The People's Republic of China does not consider itself to be bound by subparagraph (b) of paragraph 1 of article 1.

#Czech Republic


#Denmark
". . ."2) under paragraph 1 of article 93 that the Convention shall not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland,"3) under paragraph 1 cf. paragraph 3 of article 94 that the Convention shall not apply to contracts of sale where one of the parties has his place of business in Denmark, Finland, NoDeclaration made upon signature and confirmed upon ratifica tion:Denmark will not be bound by Part II of the Convention.rway or Sweden and the other party has his place of business in another of the said states,"4) under paragraph 2 of article 94 that the Convention is not to apply to contracts of sale where one of the parties has his place of business in Denmark, Finland, Norway or Sweden and the other party has his place of business in Iceland.""... In addition to the previous declaration made under Article 94 Denmark declares, in respect of Iceland in accordance with paragraph 1, in respect of Finland and Sweden in accordance with paragraph 1 cf. paragraph 3 and in repect of Norway in accordance with paragraph 2 that the Convention will not apply to the formation of contracts of sale where the parties have their places of business in Denmark, Iceland, Finland, Sweden or Norway."

#Estonia
"In accordance with articles 12 and 96 of the said Conven- tion any provision of article 11, article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other that in writing does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Republic of Estonia.""In accordance with Article 97, paragraph 4 of the said Convention, the Republic of Estonia declares that the Republic of Estonia withdraws the declaration made in the said instrument of ratification, which prescribed that: "in accordance with Articles 12 and 96 of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods any provision of Article 11, Article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Republic of Estonia."In consequence any provision of Article 11, Article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing does apply where any party has his place of business in the Republic of Estonia."

#Finland
"With reference to Article 94, in respect of Sweden in accordance with paragraph (1) and otherwise in accordance with paragraph (2) the Convention will not apply to contracts of sale where the parties have their places of business in Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland or Norway."“In addition to the previous declaration made under Article 94 the Republic of Finland declares, in respect of Iceland in accordance with paragraph (1) and otherwise in accordance with paragraph (2), that the Convention will not apply to the formation of contracts of sale where the parties have their places of business in Finland, Iceland, Denmark, Norway or Sweden.”

#Germany
The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany holds the view that Parties to the Convention that have made a declaration under article 95 of the Convention are not considered Contracting States within the meaning of subparagraph (a) (b) of article 1 of the Convention. Accordingly, there is no obligation to apply - and the Federal Republic of Germany assumes no obligation to apply - this provision when the rules of private international law lead to the application of the law of a Party that has made a declaration to the effect that it will not be bound by subparagraph (1) (b) of article 1 of the Convention. Subject to this observation the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany makes no declaration under article 95 of the Convention.

#Hungary
"The Hungarian People's Republic considers the General Conditions of Delivery of Goods between Organizations of the Member Countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance/GCD CMEA, 1968/1975, version of 1979/ to be subject to the provisions of article 90 of the Convention;"The Hungarian People's Republic states, in accordance with articles 12 and 96 of the Convention, that any provision of article 11, article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing, does not apply where any party has his place of business in the Hungarian People's Republic."

#Iceland
"Pursuant to article 94, paragraph 1, the Convention will not apply to contracts of sale or to their formation where the parties have their places of business in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway or Sweden."

#Latvia


#Lithuania


#Norway
Same reservation, mutatis mutandis, as the one made by Finland.Same reservation, mutatis mutandis, as theone made by Finland.“… in addition to the previous declaration made on 20 July 1988 under Article 94, Norway declares, in respect of Iceland in accordance with paragraph 1 and otherwise in accordance with paragraph 1 cf. paragraph 3, that the Convention will not apply to the formation of contracts of sale where the parties have their places of business in Norway, Denmark, Finland, Iceland or Sweden.”

#Paraguay
The Republic of Paraguay declares, in accordance with articles 12 and 96 of the Convention, that any provision of article 11, article 29 or Part II of the Convention that allows a contract of sale or its modification or termination by agreement, or any offer, acceptance or other indication of intention to be made in any form other than in writing shall not apply where any party has his place of business in Paraguay.

#Russian Federation
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as theone made by Belarus.

#Singapore
"In accordance with article 95 of the said Convention, the Government of the Republic of Singapore will not be bound by sub-paragraph (1) (b) of article 1 of the Convention and will apply the Convention to the Contracts of Sale of Goods only between those parties whose places of business are in different States when the States are Contracting States."

#Slovakia


#St. Vincent and the Grenadines
“The Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines declares that Saint Vincent and the Grenadines will not be bound by subparagraph  1  (b) of Article 1 of the Convention.”

#Sweden
Same reservation, mutatis mutandis, as the one made by Finland.“In addition to the previous declaration made under Article 94 Sweden declares, in respect of Iceland in accordance with paragraph 1, in respect of Finland in accordance with paragraph 1 cf. paragraph 3 and otherwise in accordance with paragraph 2, that the Convention will not apply to the formation of contracts of sale where the parties have their places of business in Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland or Norway.”

#Ukraine
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis, as the one made by Belarus.

#United States of America
"Pursuant to article 95 the United States will not be bound by subparagraph (1) (b) of Article 1".

