#cuba
The Revolutionary Government of the Republic of Cuba does not consider itself bound by the provisions of the final clause of article VIII, paragraph 2, which authorizes the Parties to request the President of the International Court of Justice to nominate arbitrators for the settlement of disputes.

#germany
"The Federal Republic of Germany cannot consider roasted coffee, coffee–and tea extracts as well as tobacco goods includ- ing cigarette paper as samples of negligible value. No privileges provided for in Article II of the International Convention to Facilitate the Importation of Commercial Samples and Advertising Material can be granted with respect to the importation of the above-described products into the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany."

#india
"The concession of duty-free import would be available to only those catalogues, price lists and trade notices which are supplied free."

#malta
"In the application of paragraph 5 of Article III of the Convention the period allowed by the Government of Malta for re-exportation of samples which qualify for exemption from import duties under that Article, should be three months which may be extended on sufficient cause being shown."

#mexico
Conformément à l'article XIV, the Government of the United Mexican States hereby declares that it does not agree to the temporary importation of representative samples of vehicles and industrial and agricultural machinery or equipment referred to in article III of the Convention.

#romania
(a)In acceding to the International Convention to Facilitate the Importation of Commercial Samples and Advertising Material, done at Geneva on 7 November 1952, in the interests of the development of international economic co-operation, the Socialist Republic of Romania considers that negotiation between the parties to a dispute, as provided for in article VIII (1) of the Convention, constitutes the means of settling such disputes in a spirit of co-operation between the States and of full respect for their interests.(b)The Council of State of the Socialist Republic of Roma- nia considers that the maintenance of the state of dependence of certain territories to which the provisions of article XIII of the above-mentioned Convention apply is not in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 14 December 1960 in resolution 1514 (XV), which proclaims the need to put an end to colonialism in all its forms and manifestations immediately and unconditionally.

#spain


#sri lanka


#trinidad and tobago
"Paragraph 6 of Article III cannot be implemented in Trinidad as the Customs and Excise Department is not self-accounting and refunds are made on Treasury vouchers."

#uganda
"Uganda shall not be bound by article V of the Convention."

#united republic of tanzania
"In accordance with article XIV, Tanganyika United Republic of Tanzania reserves the right not to grant to advertising films temporary duty-free admission treatment."

