#algeria
The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria does not consider itself bound by the provisions of article 15 of the Protocol concerning compulsory arbitration and declares that the agreement of all the parties in dispute is required for the sub mission of each individual dispute to arbitration.

#bulgaria


#cuba
The Revolutionary Government of the Republic of Cuba does not consider itself bound by the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 15 of the Protocol.

#czech republic


#fiji
"Fiji shall not be bound by Article 2 of the Additional Proto- col in so far as it refers to unframed photographs and unframed photographic enlargements; but undertakes to allow the tempor- ary duty and tax free admission of these articles under the provi- sions applicable to Article 3 of the Protocol."

#hungary
"The Hungarian People's Republic does not consider itself bound by the terms of paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 15 of the Protocol."

#malta
"Notwithstanding article 3 of the Additional Protocol the duty-free temporary importation into Malta of display material (e.g., showcases, stands and similar articles), sound recordings and flags, shall be subject to the making of a deposit with the Comptroller of Customs equivalent to the amount of duty payable on the goods allowed to be temporarily imported or to the giving of a security for such duty."

#poland


#romania
The Romanian People's Republic does not consider itself bound by the provisions of article 15, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the additional Protocol. The position of the Romanian People's Re- public is that a dispute concerning the interpretation or application of the Additional Protocol may be submitted to arbitration only with the agreement of all the parties in dispute and that only persons nominated by unanimous agreement of the parties in dispute may act as arbitrators.

#russian federation
The Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, considering that disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the Additional Protocol to the Convention concerning Customs Facilities for Touring can be decided by arbitration, declares that a dispute may be submitted to arbitration only with the agreement of all the parties in dispute and only persons nominated by unanimous agreement of the parties in dispute may act as arbitrators.

#slovakia


#tunisia
A dispute may be submitted to arbitration only with the agreement of all the parties in dispute.

#uganda
"Notwithstanding Articles 2, 3 and 4, the Government of Uganda reserves the right to require temporary importation per- mits in respect of any item specified therein which may be or be come dutiable at any time."

#united republic of tanzania
"Notwithstanding articles 2, 3 and 4 of the Additional Proto- col, the Government of the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar Tanzania reserves the right to require temporary im- portation permits in respect of any item specified therein which may at any time be dutiable."

