#albania
1. As regards Article VII : The People's Republic of Albania declares its disagreement with the last sentence of article VII and considers that the juridical effect of a reservation is to make the Convention operative as between the State making the reservation and all other States parties to the Convention, with the exception only of that part thereof to which the reservation relates.2. As regards Article IX: The People's Republic of Albania does not consider itself bound by the provisions of article IX which provides that disputes between Contracting Parties con- cerning the interpretation or application of this Convention shall at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute be referred to the International Court of Justice for decision, and declares that for any dispute to be referred to the International Court of Justice for decision the agreement of all the parties to the dispute shall be necessary in each individual case.

#antigua and barbuda
"The Government of Antigua and Barbuda reserves from the application of this Convention all matters relating to the recruit- ment to, and conditions of service in, the armed forces of Antigua and Barbuda."

#argentina
The Argentine Government reserves the right not to submit to the procedure set out in this article article IX any dispute which is directly connected with territories which fall within Argentine sovereignty.

#australia
"The Government of Australia hereby declares that the accession by Australia shall be subject to the reservation that article III of the Convention shall have no application as regards recruitment to and conditions of service in the Defence Forces."The Government of Australia furthermore declares that the Convention shall not extend to Papua New Guinea."

#austria


#bangladesh
"The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh will apply article III of the Convention in consonance with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Bangladesh and in particular, article 28 (4) allowing special provision in favour of women; article 29.3 (c) allowing reservation of any class of employment or office for one sex on the ground that it is considered by its nature to be unsuited to members of the opposite sex; and article 65 (3) providing for reservation of 30 seats in the National Assembly for women in addition to the provision allowing women to be elected to any and all of the 300 seats.For the submission of any dispute in terms of this article to the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, the consent of all the parties to the dispute will be required in each case."

#belarus
As regards article VII:Same declaration as the one reproducedunder "Albania".

#belgium


#bulgaria
As regards article VII:Same declaration and reservation as the one sreproduced under "Albania".

#canada
"Inasmuch as under the Canadian constitutional system legislative jurisdiction in respect of political rights is divided between the provinces and the Federal Government, the Government of Canada is obliged, in acceding to this Convention, to make a reservation in respect of rights within the legislative jurisdiction of the provinces."

#czech republic


#denmark
Subject to a reservation with respect to article III of the Con- vention, in so far as it relates to the right of women to hold military appointments or to act as heads of recruitment services or to serve on recruitment boards.

#ecuador
"The Government of Ecuador signs this Convention subject to a reservation with respect to the last phrase in article I, `without any discrimination', since article 22 of the Political Constitution of the Republic specifies that "a vote in popular elections is obligatory for a man and optional for a woman".

#fiji
"The reservations of the United Kingdom 1 (a), (b), (d) and (f) are affirmed and are redrafted as more suitable to the situation of Fiji in the following terms:"Article III is accepted subject to reservations, pending noti- fication of withdrawal of any case, insofar as it relates to:"(a) succession to the Crown;"(b) certain offices primarily of a ceremonial nature;"(d) recruitment to and conditions of service in the armed forces;"(f) the employment of married women in the civil service"All other reservations made by the United Kingdom are withdrawn."

#finland
As regards Article III: "A decree may be issued to the effect that only men or women can be appointed to certain functions, which because of their nature, can be properly discharged either only by men or by women."

#france


#germany
"The Federal Republic of Germany accedes to the Conven- tion with the reservation that article III of the Convention does not apply to service in the armed forces."

#guatemala


#hungary
As regards article VII:Same declaration as the one reproducedunder "Albania".

#india
"Article III of the Convention shall have no application as regards recruitment to, and conditions of service in any of the Armed Forces of India or the Forces charged with the mainten- ance of public order in India."

#indonesia
"The last sentence of article VII and the whole article IX do not apply to Indonesia."

#ireland
"Article III is accepted subject to reservation in so far as it relates to"(a) the employment of married women in the public service;"(b) the unequal remuneration of women in certain positions in the public service,"and subject to the following declarations:"(1) that the exclusion of women from positions of employ- ment for which by objective standards or for physical reasons they are not suitable is not regarded as discriminatory;"(2) that the fact that jury service is not at present obligatory for women is not regarded as discriminatory."

#italy
"In acceding to the Convention on the Political Rights of Women, done at New York on 31 March 1953, the Italian Government declares that it reserves its rights to apply the provisions of Art. III as far as service in the armed forces and in special armed corps is concerned within the limits established by national legislation."

#lesotho
"Article III is accepted subject to reservation, pending noti- fication of withdrawal in any case, so far as it relates to: Matters regulated by Basotho Law and Custom."

#malta
"In acceding to this Convention, the Government of Malta hereby declares that it does not consider itself bound by article III in so far as that article applies to conditions of service in the Public Service and to Jury Service."

#mauritius
"The Government of Mauritius hereby declares that it does not consider itself bound by article III of the Convention in so far as that Article applies to recruitment to and conditions of service in the armed forces or to jury service."

#mexico
"It is expressly understood that the Government of Mexico will not deposit its instrument of ratification pending the entry into force of the amendment to the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States which is now under consideration, providing that citizenship rights shall be granted to Mexican women."

#mongolia
"The Government of the Mongolian People's Republic declares its disagreement with paragraph 1 of article IV and paragraph 1 of article V and considers that the present Convention should be open to all States for signature or accession.

#morocco
The consent of all the parties concerned is required for the referral of any dispute to the International Court of Justice.

#nepal
As regards article IX of the Convention: "A dispute shall be referred for decision to the International Court of Justice only at the request of all the parties to the dispute."

#netherlands


#new zealand
"Subject to a reservation with respect to Article III of the Convention, in so far as it relates to recruitment and conditions of service in the armed forces of New Zealand."

#pakistan
"Article III of the Convention shall have no application as regards recruitment to and conditions of services charged with the maintenance of public order or unsuited to women because of the hazards involved."

#poland
As regards article VII:Same declaration and reservation as the ones reproduced under "Albania".

#romania
As regards article VII:Same declaration and reservation as the ones reproduced under "Albania".

#russian federation
As regards article VII:Same declaration as the one reproduced under "Albania".

#sierra leone
"In acceding to this Convention, the Government of Sierra Leone hereby declares that it does not consider itself bound by article III in so far as that article applies to recruitment to and conditions of service in the Armed Forces or to jury service."

#slovakia


#solomon islands
The Government of Solomon Islands declared that Solomon Islands maintains the reservations entered by the United Kingdom save in so far as the same cannot apply to Solomon Islands.

#spain
Articles I and III of the Convention shall be interpreted with out prejudice to the provisions which in current Spanish legisla- tion define the status of head of family.Articles II and III shall be interpreted without prejudice to the norms relating to the office of Head of State contained in the Spanish Fundamental Laws.Article III shall be interpreted without prejudice to the fact that certain functions, which by their nature can be exercised satisfactorily only by men or only by women, shall be exercised exclusively by men or by women, as appropriate, in accordance with Spanish legislation.

#st. vincent and the grenadines
“The Government of St. Vincent and the Grenadines reserves from the application of article III of this Convention all matters relating to the recruitment to, and conditions of service in, the armed forces of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.”

#swaziland
"(a) Article III of the Convention shall have no application as regards remuneration for women in certain posts in the Civil Service of the Kingdom of Swaziland;"(b) The Convention shall have no application to matters which are regulated by Swaziland Law and Custom in accordance with Section 62 (2) of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Swaziland. (a) The office of Nggwenyama; (b) the office of Ndlovukazi (the Queen Mother); (c) the authorization of a person to perform the functions of Regent for the purposes of section 30 of this Constitution; (d) the appointment, revocation of appointment and suspension of Chiefs; (e) the composition of the Swazi National Council, the appointment and revocation of appointment of members of the Council, and the procedure of the Council; (f) the Ncwala Ceremony; (g) the Libutfo (regimental) system.

#tunisia
Article IX For any dispute to be referred to the International Court of Justice, the agreement of all the parties to the dispute shall be necessary in every case.

#ukraine
As regards article VII:Same declaration as the one reproduced under "Albania" .

#united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland accedes to the Convention with the following reservations submitted in accordance with article VII:"(1) Article III is accepted subject to reservations, pending notification of withdrawal in any case, in so far as it relates to:"(a) succession to the Crown;"(b) certain offices primarily of a ceremonial nature;"(c) the function of sitting and voting in the House of Lords pertaining to holders of hereditary peerages and holders of certain offices in the Church of England;"(d) recruitment to and conditions of service in the armed forces;"(e) jury service in Grenada, ... as well as in the Kingdom of Tonga;"(f). . ."(g) remuneration for women in the Civil Service of ... Hong Kong, as well as of the Protectorate of Swaziland;"(h). . ."(i) in the State of Brunei, the exercise of the royal powers, jury service or its equivalent and the holding of certain offices governed by Islamic Law."(2) The United Kingdom reserves the right to postpone the application of this Convention in respect of women living in the Colony of Aden, having regard to the local customs and tradi- tions. Further, the United Kingdom reserves the right not to apply this Convention to Rhodesia unless and until the United Kingdom informs the Secretary-General of the United Nations that it is in a position to ensure that the obligations imposed by the Convention in respect of that territory can be fully implemented."

#venezuela (bolivarian republic of)
Reservation with regard to article IX:Venezuela does not accept the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice for the settlement of disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention.

#yemen
(a)The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen declares that it does not accept the last sentence of article VII and considers that the juridical effect of a reservation is to make the Convention operative as between the State making the reservation and all other States parties to the Convention with the exception only of that part thereof to which the reservation relates.(b)The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen does not consider itself bound by the text of article IX, which provides that disputes between Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention may, at the request of any one of the parties to the dispute, be referred to the International Court of Justice. It declares that the competence of the International Court of Justice with respect to disputes concerning the interpretation or application of the Convention shall in each case be subject to the express consent of all parties to the dispute.

