#Bangladesh
"The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh reserves the right to apply the provisions of articles 1 and 2 in so far as they relate to the question of legal validity of child marriage, in accordance with the Personal Laws of different religious communities of the country.The Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, in acceding to the Convention will not be bound by the exception clause of article 2 viz . except where a competent authority has granted a dispensation as to age, for serious reasons, in the interest of the intending spouses".

#Denmark
"With the reservation that article 1, paragraph 2, shall not apply to the Kingdom of Denmark."

#Dominican Republic
The Dominican Republic wishes the laws of the Dominican Republic to continue to have precedence in respect of the possibility, provided for in article 1, paragraph 2, of entering into a civil marriage by means of a proxy or procuration. Consequently, it can accept the said provisions only with reservations.

#Fiji
"The Government of Fiji withdraws the reservation, and declarations in respect of the law of Scotland and in respect of Southern Rhodesia, made on 9th July, 1970 by Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, and affirms that the Government of Fiji declares it to be their understanding that:"(a) paragraph 1 of Article 1, and the second sentence of Article 2, of the Convention are concerned with the entry into marriage under the laws of a State Party and not with the recognition under the laws of one State or territory of the validity of marriages contracted under the laws of another State or territory; and(b) paragraph 2 of Article 1 does not require legislative provision to be made where no such legislation already exists, for marriages to be contracted in the absence of one of the parties."

#Finland
"With the reservation that article 1, paragraph 2, shall not apply to the Republic of Finland.""With the reservation that article 1, paragraph 2, shall not apply to the Republic of Finland."

#France
France declares that it will apply article 1 (2) of the Convention in accordance with its domestic laws reserving marriage celebrations in the absence of one of the parties only to exceptions expressly provided for in its legislation.France declares that it will apply article 1 (1) of the Convention in accordance with its domestic legislation on the conditions for exemption from the formality of publication.

#Greece
With reservation to article 1, paragraph 2, of the Convention.

#Guatemala
With regard to article 1, paragraph 1, of the Convention, Guatemala declares that since its legislation, in respect of its nationals, does not call for the requirements relating to publicity of the marriage and the presence of witnesses for it to be solem- nized, it does not consider itself obliged to comply with those requirements where the parties are Guatemalans.

#Hungary
In acceding to the Convention, the Presidential Council of the Hungarian People's Republic declares that it does not consider paragraph 2 of article 1 of the Convention as binding the Hungarian People's Republic to grant, under the terms thereof, permit of marriage when one of the intending spouses is not present.

#Iceland
"Article 1, paragraph 2, shall not apply to the Republic of Iceland."

#Netherlands
In signing the Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages, the Government of the Netherlands hereby declare that, in view of the equality which exists, from the standpoint of public law, between the Netherlands, Surinam and the Netherlands Antilles, the Government of the Kingdom reserves the right to ratify the Convention in respect of only one or two parts of the Kingdom and to declare at a later date, by written notification to the Secretary-General, that the Convention is to apply also to the other part or parts of the Kingdom.

#Norway
"With the reservation that article 1, paragraph 2, shall not apply to the Kingdom of Norway."

#Philippines
"The Convention on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages was adopted for the purpose, among other things, of insuring to all persons complete freedom in the choice of a spouse. The first paragraph of Article 1 of the Convention requires that the full and free consent of both parties shall be expressed in the presence of the competent authority and of witnesses."Considering the provisions of its Civil Code, the Philippines, in ratifying this Convention interprets the second paragraph of Article 1 (which authorizes, in exceptional cases, the solemnization of marriage by proxy) as not imposing upon the Philippines the obligation to allow within its territory the celebration of proxy marriages or marriages of the kind contemplated in that paragraph, where such manner of marriage is not authorized by the laws of the Philippines. Rather, the solemnization within Philippine territory of a marriage in the absence of one of the parties under the conditions stated in said paragraph will be permitted only if so allowed by Philippine law."

#Romania
Romania will not apply the provisions of article 1, paragraph 2, of the Convention, regarding the celebration of marriage in the absence of one of the future spouses.

#Sweden
With reservation to article 1, paragraph 2, of the Convention.With reservation to article 1, paragraph 2, of the Convention.

#United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
"(a). . ."(b) It is the understanding of the Government of the United Kingdom that paragraph (1) of article 1 and the second sentence of article 2, of the Convention are concerned with entry into marriage under the laws of a State Party and not with the recognition under the laws of one State or territory of the validity of marriages contracted under the laws of another State or territory; nor is paragraph (1) of article 1 applicable to marriages by cohabitation with habit and repute under the law of Scotland;"(c) Paragraph (2) of article 1 does not require legislative provision to be made, where no such legislation already exists, for marriages to be contracted in the absence of one of the parties;"(d) The provisions of the Convention shall not apply to Southern Rhodesia unless and until the Government of the United Kingdom inform the Secretary-General that they are in a position to ensure that the obligations imposed by the Convention in respect of that territory can be fully implemented."

#United States of America
"With the understanding that legislation in force in the various States of the United States of America is in conformity with this Convention and that action by the United States of America with respect to this Convention does not constitute acceptance of the provisions of article 8 as a precedent for any subsequent instruments."

#Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
See chapter XVI.1 .

