#argentina
The Argentine Republic, exercising its prerogative under article 58 of the Agreement, enters a reservation regarding article 53 of that Agreement as it cannot accept compulsory arbitration as the only means of settling disputes of the kind referred to in this article, and as it believes that the parties to such disputes must be free to determine by mutual agreement the means of settlement best suited to each particular case.

#belgium
In accordance with article 11, paragraph 3, of the Agreement, the payment of the Paid-in Shares subscribed by Belgium (2,640,699 Units of Account) will be effected in three instalments in accordance with the specified procedure, the first of which will take place within 60 days after the entry into force of the Agreement.With regard to the amount subscribed by Belgium for Payable Shares (915,543 Units of Account), it shall be subject to call by the Fund, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 4, only as provided in article 17, paragraph 12.

#bulgaria
Same declaration identical in substance, mutatis mutandis, as that made by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

#cuba
The Government of the Republic of Cuba declares, in con- formity with article 58 of the Agreement, that it does not consider itself bound by the arbitration procedures for the settlement of disputes established in article 53.

#japan
"The Government of Japan shall contribute to the initial resources of the Second Account of the Common Fund an amount in Japanese yen that is equivalent to twenty-seven million United States dollars (U.S.$27 million) in accordance with article 13 of the Agreement."“The Government of Japan opts for payment of the above contribution in three equal annual instalments, with the first one to be made in cash or in notes within one year after the entry into force of the Agreement. The notes are understood to be irrevocable, non-negotiable, non-interest bearing promissory notes, issued in lieu of a cash payment and payable to the Fund at par value upon demand. It is also understood that the notes are to be treated in the same manner as notes of the same kind from other contributors.”

#russian federation
In view of its well known position, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics cannot recognize the legality of the names "Republic of Korea" and "Democratic Kampuchea" contained in the schedules to the Agreement establishing the Common Fund for Commodities.

#singapore
"The Government of the Republic of Singapore declares that it is not in agreement with the manner in which the share of individual countries to the Directly Contributed Capital was determined. Nevertheless, the Government of the Republic of Singapore will make contributions as presently indicated in schedule A of the Agreement. This should not however prejudice in any way Singapore's position on its share of any contributions to be made under other agreements."

#syrian arab republic
Our accession to and ratification of the Agreement shall not in any way imply recognition of Israel and shall not, conse-quently, lead to involvement with it in any transactions as are regulated by the provisions of the Agreement.The Syrian Arab Republic enters a reservation in respect of article 53 of the Agreement, with regard to the binding nature of arbitration.

#venezuela (bolivarian republic of)
With reservation as to article 53.

