#Belarus
Article 20 : The Government of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that government ships in foreign territorial waters have immunity and that the measures mentioned in this article may therefore be applied to them only with the consent of the flag State.Article 23 (Sub-section D. Rules applicable to warships) : The Government of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that the coastal State has the right to establish procedures for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters.

#Bulgaria
Article 20 : The Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria considers that government ships in foreign waters have immunity and that the measures set forth in this article may therefore apply to such ships only with the consent of the flag state.Article 23 (Sub-section D. Rules applicable to warships) : The Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria considers that the coastal State has the right to establish procedures for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters.Article 20 : The Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria considers that government ships in the territorial sea of another State have immunity and that the measures set forth in this article may therefore apply to such ships only with the consent of the flag State.Article 23 (Sub-section D. Rules applicable to warships) : The Government of the People's Republic of Bulgaria considers that the coastal State has the right to establish procedures for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial sea.

#Colombia
With respect to the Convention on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone, the delegation of Colombia declares that, under article 98 of the Colombian Constitution, authorization by the Senate is required for the passage of foreign troops through Colombian territory and that, by analogy, such authorization is accordingly also required for the passage of foreign warships through Colombian territorial waters.

#Czech Republic


#Hungary
Articles 14 and 23 : "The Government of the Hungarian People's Republic is of the opinion that the coastal State is entitled to make the passage of warships through its territorial waters subject to previous authorization.”Article 21 : "The Government of the Hungarian People's Republic is of the opinion that the rules contained in Sub-Section B of Section III of Part I of the Convention are generally inapplicable to government ships operated for commercial purposes so far as they encroach on the immunities enjoyed under international law by all government ships, whether commercial or non-commercial, on foreign territorial waters. Consequently, the provisions of Sub-Section B restricting the immunities of government ships operated for commercial purposes are applicable only upon consent of the State whose flag the ship flies."

#Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Article 14 : The Iranian Government maintains the objection on the ground of excess of competence, expressed by its delegation at the twelfth plenary meeting of the Conference on the Law of the Sea on 24 April 1958, to the articles recommended by the Fifth Committee of the Conference and incorporated in part in article 14 of this Convention. The Iranian Government accordingly reserves all rights regarding the contents of this article in so far as it relates to countries having no sea coast.

#Italy
The Government of the Republic of Italy, beside exercising control for the purposes of article 24, paragraph 1 in the zone of the high seas contiguous to the territorial sea, reserves the right to exercise surveillance within the belt of sea extending twelve nautical miles from the coast for the purpose of preventing and punishing infringements of the customs regulations in whatever point of this belt such infringements may be committed.

#Lithuania
". . .The Republic of Lithuania declares the establishing of the procedure for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters for the warships of those States which have established the procedure for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters."

#Mexico
The Government of Mexico considers that government ships, irrespective of the use to which they are put, enjoy immunity, and it therefore enters an express reservation with regard to article 21 of Sub-Section C (Rules applicable to government ships other than warships) in so far as it applies to article 19, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, and article 20, paragraphs 2 and 3, of Sub-Section B (Rules applicable to merchant ships).

#Romania
Article 20 : The Government of the Romanian People's Republic considers that government ships have immunity in foreign territorial waters and that the measures envisaged in this article may not be applied to such ships except with the consent of the flag State.Article 23 : The Government of the Romanian People's Republic considers that the coastal State has the right to provide that the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters shall be subject to previous approval.

#Russian Federation
Article 20 : The Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics considers that government ships in foreign territorial waters have immunity and that the measures mentioned in this article may therefore be applied to them only with the consent of the flag State.Article 23 (Sub-Section D. Rule applicable to warships) : The Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics considers that the coastal State has the right to establish procedures for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters.

#Slovakia


#Solomon Islands
"The succession of Solomon Islands to the said Treaty shall be without prejudice to the right of Solomon Islands(1)to employ straight base lines drawn between its islands as the basis for the delimitation of its territorial sea and contiguous zone, and(2)to designate all waters enclosed by the said straight base lines as internal or archipelagic water."

#Spain
Spain's accession is not to be interpreted as recognition of any rights or situations in connexion with the waters of Gibraltar other than those referred to in article 10 of the Treaty of Utrecht, of 13 July 1713, between the Crowns of Spain and Great Britain.

#Tunisia
The Government of the Tunisian Republic does not consider itself bound by the provisions of article 16, paragraph 4 of this Convention.

#Ukraine
Article 20 : The Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that government ships in foreign territorial waters have immunity and that the measures mentioned in this article may therefore be applied to them only with the consent of the flag State.Article 23 (Sub-Section D. Rule applicable to warships) : The Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic considers that the coastal State has the right to establish procedures for the authorization of the passage of foreign warships through its territorial waters.

#United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
“Save as may be stated in any further and separate notices that may hereafter be given, ratification of this Convention on behalf of the United Kingdom does not extend to the States in the Persian Gulf enjoying British protection. Multilateral conventions to which the United Kingdom becomes a party are not extended to these States until such times as an extension is requested by the Ruler of the State concerned.”

#Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
With reference to article 12 that there are special circumstances to be taken into consideration in the following areas: The Gulf of Paria and zones adjacent thereto; the area between the coast of Venezuela and the island of Aruba; and the Gulf of Venezuela.With express reservation in respect of article 12 and paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 24 of the said Convention.

