#Afghanistan
"Afghanistan will apply the Convention only to : (i) recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State; and (ii) differences arising out of legal relationships whether contractual or not which are considered as commercial under the national law of Afghanistan."

#Algeria
Referring to the possibility offered by article I, paragraph 3, of the Convention, the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria declares that it will apply the Convention, on the basis of re- ciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State and only where such awards have been made with respect to differences arising out of legal relationships whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under Algerian law.

#Antigua and Barbuda
"In accordance with article I, the Government of Antigua and Barbuda declares that it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another contracting state.The Government of Antigua and Barbuda also declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are con- sidered as commercial under the laws of Antigua and Barbuda."

#Argentina
Subject to the declaration contained in the Final Act.On the basis of reciprocity, the Republic of Argentina will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State. It will also apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.The Convention will be interpreted in accordance with the principles and clauses of the National Constitution in force or those resulting from modification made by virtue of the Constitution.

#Armenia
"1.The Republic of Armenia will apply the Convention only to recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.2.The Republic of Armenia will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the laws of the Republic of Armenia."

#Austria


#Bahrain
"1.The accession by the State of Bahrain to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, 1958 shall in no way constitute recognition of Israel or be a cause for the establishment of any relations of any kind therewith."2.In accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention, the State of Bahrain will apply the Convention, on the basis of reci- procity, to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards made in the territory of another Contracting State party to the Convention."3.In accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention, the State of Bahrain will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the State of Bahrain."

#Barbados
"(i)In accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention, the Government of Barbados declares that it will apply the Conven- tion on the basis of reciprocity to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.(ii)The Government of Barbados will also apply the Con- vention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not which are considered as commercial under the laws of Barbados."

#Belarus
The Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic will apply the provisions of this Convention in respect to arbitral awards made in the territories of non-contracting States only to the extent to which they grant reciprocal treatment.

#Belgium
In accordance with article I, paragraph 3, the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium declares that it will apply the Conven- tion to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of a Contracting State.

#Bosnia and Herzegovina
"The Convention will be applied to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina only relating to those arbitral awards that have been brought after entering into force of the Convention.The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina."

#Botswana
"The Republic of Botswana will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationship, whether contrac- tual or not, which are considered commercial under Botswana law."The Republic of Botswana will apply the Convention to the Recognition and Enforcement of Awards made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Brunei Darussalam
"... Brunei Darussalam will on the basis of reciprocity apply the said Convention to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards which are made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Bulgaria
"Bulgaria will apply the Convention to recognition and en- forcement of awards made in the territory of another contracting State. With regard to awards made in the territory of non-con- tracting States it will apply the Convention only to the extent to which these States grant reciprocal treatment."

#Canada
"The Government of Canada declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the laws of Canada, except in the case of the Province of Quebec where the law does not provide for such limitation."

#Central African Republic
Referring to the possibility offered by paragraph 3 of article I of the Convention, the Central African Republic declares that it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State; it further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#China
1.The People's Republic of China will apply the Conven- tion, only on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and en- forcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State;2.The People's Republic of China will apply the Conven- tion only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the People's Republic of China.

#Cuba
Cuba will apply the Convention to the recognition and en- forcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State. With respect to arbitral awards made by other non-contracting States it will apply the Convention only in so far as those States grant reciprocal treatment as established by mutual agreement between the parties. Moreover, it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under Cuban legislation.

#Cyprus
"The Republic of Cyprus will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State; furthermore it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law."

#Czech Republic


#Denmark
In accordance with the terms of article I, paragraph 3, the Convention shall have effect only as regards the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made by another Contracting State and it shall be valid only with respect to commercial relationships.

#Ecuador
Ecuador, on a basis of reciprocity, will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State only if such awards have been made with respect to differences arising out of legal relationships which are regarded as commercial under Ecuadorian law.

#France
Referring to the possibility offered by paragraph 3 of arti- cle I of the Convention, France declares that it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State.Referring to paragraphs 1 and 2 of article X of the Conven- tion, France declares that this Convention will extend to all the territories of the French Republic.

#Germany
"With respect to paragraph 1 of article I, and in accordance with paragraph 3 of article I of the Convention, the Federal Re- public of Germany will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Greece
The present Convention is approved on condition of the two limitations set forth in article I (3) of the Convention.

#Guatemala
On the basis of reciprocity, the Republic of Guatemala will apply the above Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another contract- ing State; and will apply it only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#Holy See
The State of Vatican City will apply the said Convention on the basis of reciprocity, on the one hand, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State, and on the other hand, only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under Vatican law.

#Honduras
“The State of Honduras will apply the Convention to the recognition and execution of arbitral awards issued in the territory of another Contracting State. Also, it will only apply the Convention to the differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, considered as as commercial by national legislation.”

#Hungary
"The Hungarian People's Republic shall apply the Conven- tion to the recognition and enforcement of such awards only as have been made in the territory of one of the other Contracting States and are dealing with differences arising in respect of a legal relationship considered by the Hungarian law as a commercial relationship."

#India
"In accordance with Article I of the Convention, the Gov-ernment of India declare that they will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of a State, party to this Convention. They further declare that they will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the law of India."

#Indonesia
"Pursuant to the provision of article I (3) of the Convention, the Government of the Republic of Indonesia declares that it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State, and that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the Indonesian Law".

#Iran (Islamic Republic of)
"(a)In accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention, the Islamic Republic of Iran will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the Islamic Republic of Iran;(b) In accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention, the Islamic Republic of Iran will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards made in the territory of another Contracting State Party to the Convention."

#Ireland
"In accordance with article I (3) of the said Convention the Government of Ireland declares that it will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State".

#Jamaica
"The Government of Jamaica, on the basis of Reciprocity, will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State, in accordance with article 1 (3).The Government of Jamaica further declares that the Convention will only be applied to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered to be commercial under the national laws of Jamaica in accordance with article 1 (3) of the Convention."

#Japan
"It will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Jordan
The Government of Jordan shall not be bound by any awards which are made by Israel or to which an Israeli is a party.

#Kenya
"In accordance with article I (3) of the said Convention the Government of Kenya declares that it will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another contracting state."

#Kuwait
The State of Kuwait will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.It is understood that the accession of the State of Kuwait to the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done at New York, on the 10th of June 1958, does not mean in any way recognition of Israel or entering with it into relations governed by the Convention thereto acceded by the State of Kuwait.

#Lebanon
The Government of Lebanon declares that it will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.

#Liechtenstein
“In accordance with article 1 (3) the Principality of Liechtenstein will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.”

#Lithuania
The Republic of Lithuania will apply the provisions of the said Convention to the recognition of arbitral awards made in the territories of the Non-Contracting States, only on the basis of reciprocity."

#Luxembourg
The Convention is applied on the basis of reciprocity to the recognition and enforcement of only those arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.

#Madagascar
The Malagasy Republic declares that it will apply the Con- vention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State; it further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#Malaysia
The Government of Malaysia will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. Malaysia further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether con-tractual or not, which are considered as commercial under Malaysian law.

#Malta
"1. In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Convention, Malta will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.2. The Convention only applies in regard to Malta with respect to arbitration agreements concluded after the date of Malta's accession to the Convention."

#Mauritius
"Referring to paragraphs 1 and 2 of article X of the Convention, the Republic of Mauritius declares that this Convention will extend to all the territories forming part of the Republic of Mauritius."

#Monaco
Referring to the possibility offered by article I (3) of the Convention, the Principality of Monaco will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State; furthermore, it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationship, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#Mongolia
"1.Mongolia will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.2.Mongolia will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of Mongolia."

#Montenegro
"1.The Convention is applied in regard to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia only to those arbitral awards which were adopted after the coming of the Convention into effect."2.The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will apply the Convention on a reciprocal basis only to those arbitral awards which were adopted on the territory of the other State Party to the Convention."3.The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will apply the Convention only with respect to the disputes arising from the legal relations, contractual and non-contractual, which, according to its national legislation are considered as economic."“The first reservation only constituted an affirmation of the legal principle of retroactivity and that the third reservation being essentially in accordance with article I (3) of the Convention, the word "only" was therefore to be added to the original text and note taken that the word "economic" had been used therein as a synonym for "commercial".

#Morocco
The Government of His Majesty the King of Morocco will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.

#Mozambique
“The Republic of Mozambique reserves itself the right to enforce the provisions of the said Conventions on the base of reciprocity, where the artibral awards have been pronounced in the territory of another Contracting State.”

#Nepal
"The Kingdom of Nepal will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting state. The Government of Nepal further declares that the Kingdom of Nepal will apply the Convention only to the differences arising out of legal relationship, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the law of the Kingdom of Nepal."

#Netherlands
Referring to paragraph 3 of article I of the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, the Government of the Kingdom declares that it will apply the Con- vention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State.

#New Zealand
"In accordance with paragraph 3 of article 1 of the Con- vention, the Government of New Zealand declares that it will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State."Accession to the Convention by the Government of New Zealand shall not extend for the time being, pursuant to article X of the Convention, to the Cook Islands and Niue."

#Nigeria
"In accordance with paragraph 3 of article I of the Conven- tion, the Federal Military Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria declares that it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of a State party to this Convention and to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria."

#Norway
"1.The Government of Norway will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of one of the Contracting States.""2.The Government of Norway will not apply the Con- vention to differences where the subject matter of the proceedings is immovable property situated in Norway, or a right in or to such property."

#Pakistan
"The Islamic Republic of Pakistan will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of a Contracting State."

#Philippines
"The Philippine delegation signs ad referendum this Con-vention with the reservation that it does so on the basis of reciprocity.""The Philippines will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State pursuant to Article I, paragraph 3 of the Convention."Declaration made upon ratification: "The Philippines, on the basis of reciprocity, will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State and only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the State making such declaration."

#Poland
Reservation:"With reservation as mentioned in article I, para. 3."

#Republic of Korea
"By virtue of paragraph 3 of article I of the present Convention, the Government of the Republic of Korea declares that it will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. It further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law."

#Republic of Moldova
"The Convention will be applied to the Republic of Moldova only relating those arbitral awards that have been brought after entering into force of the Convention.The Convention will be applied tot he Republic of Moldova, on the basis of reciprocity, only relating those awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.”

#Romania
The Romanian People's Republic will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its legislation.The Romanian People's Republic will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the terri- tory of another Contracting State. As regards awards made in the territory of certain non-contracting States, the Romanian People's Republic will apply the Convention only on the basis of reciprocity established by joint agreement between the parties.

#Russian Federation
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics will apply the pro-visions of this Convention in respect of arbitral awards made in the territories of non-contracting States only to the extent to which they grant reciprocal treatment.

#Saudi Arabia
On the Basis of reciprocity, the Kingdom declares that it shall restrict the application of the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made in the territory of a Contracting State.

#Serbia
"1.The Convention is applied in regard to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia only to those arbitral awards which were adopted after the coming of the Convention into effect."2.The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will apply the Convention on a reciprocal basis only to those arbitral awards which were adopted on the territory of the other State Party to the Convention."3.Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will apply the Convention only with respect to the disputes arising from the legal relations, contractual and non-contractual, which, according to its national legislation are considered as economic."In a latter declaration dated 28 June 1982, the Government of Yugoslavia had specified that :“the first reservation only constituted an affirmation of the legal principle of retroactivity and that the third reservation being essentially in accordance with article I (3) of the Convention, the word "only" was therefore to be added to the original text and note taken that the word "economic" had been used therein as a synonym for "commercial".

#Singapore
"The Republic of Singapore will on the basis of reciprocity apply the said Convention to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards which are made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Slovakia


#Slovenia


#St. Vincent and the Grenadines
“In accordance with article 1 of the Convention, the Government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines declares that they will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. They further declare that they will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the laws of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.”

#Switzerland


#Tajikistan
“The Republic of Tajikistan will apply this Convention to differences and arbitral awards arised out after entering into force of this Convention with respect to the Republic of Tajikistan and made in the territory of another Contracting State;The Republic of Tajikistan will not apply this Convention with regard to differences related to immovable property.”

#The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia


#Trinidad and Tobago
"In accordance with article I of the Convention, the Govern- ment of Trinidad and Tobago declares that it will apply the Con- vention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the Law of Trinidad and Tobago."

#Tunisia
With the reservations provided for in article I, paragraph 3, of the Convention, that is to say, the Tunisian State will apply the Convention to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State and only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the Tunisian law.

#Turkey
In accordance with the Article I, paragraph 3 of the Conven- tion, the Republic of Turkey declares that it will apply the Con- vention on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of awards made only in the territory of another contracting State. It further declares that it will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#Uganda
"The Republic of Uganda will only apply the Convention to recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#Ukraine
The Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic will apply the pro-visions of this Convention in respect of arbitral awards made in the territories of non-contracting States only to the extent to which they grant reciprocal treatment.

#United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
"The United Kingdom will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State. This declaration is also made on behalf of Gibraltar, Hong Kong and the Isle of Man to which the Convention has been extended."

#United Republic of Tanzania
"The Government of the United Republic of Tanganyika and Zanzibar will apply the Convention, in accordance with the first sentence of article I (3) thereof, only to the recognition and enforcement of awards made in the territory of another Contracting State."

#United States of America
"The United States of America will apply the Convention, on the basis of reciprocity, to the recognition and enforcement of only those awards made in the territory of another Contracting State."The United States of America will apply the Convention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under the national law of the United States."

#Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
(a)The Republic of Venezuela will apply the Convention only to the recognition and enforcement of foreign arbitral awards made in the territory of another Contracting State.(b)The Republic of Venezuela will apply the present Con- vention only to differences arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, which are considered as commercial under its national law.

#Viet Nam
1. The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam considers the Convention to be applicable to the recognition and enforcement of arbitral awards made only in the territory of another Contracting State. With respect to arbitral awards made in the territories of non-contracting States, it will apply the Convention on the basis of reciprocity.2. The Convention will be applied only to differences arising out of legal relationships which are considered as commercial under the laws of Viet Nam.3. Interpretation of the Convention before the Vietnamese Courts or competent authorities should be made in accordance with the Constitution and the law of Viet Nam.

