#australia
"It is the understanding of the Government of Australia that the provisions of Protocol IV shall apply in all circumstances."

#austria
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#belgium
It is the understanding of the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium that the provisions of Protocol IV which by their contents or nature may also be applied in peacetime, shall be observed at all times.

#canada
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#germany
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#greece
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#ireland
"It is the understanding of Ireland that the provisions of the Additional Protocol which by their contents or nature may also be applied in peacetime, shall be observed at all times."

#israel
“With reference to the scope of application defined in Article 1 of the Convention, the Government of the State of Israel will apply the provisions of the Protocol on Blinding Laser Weapons as well as the Convention and those annexed Protocols to which Israel has agreed to become bound, to all armed conflicts involving regular armed forces of States referred to in article 2 common to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949, as well as to all armed conflicts referred to in Article 3 common to the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949.”

#italy
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#liechtenstein
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#netherlands
“The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands takes the view that the provisions of Protocol IV which, given their content or nature, can also be applied in peacetime must be observed in all circumstances.”

#poland
The Republic of Poland believes that the provisions of the Additional Protocol should also be applied during peacetime.

#south africa
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Ireland.

#sweden
"--Sweden intends to apply the Protocol to all types of armed conflict;--Sweden intends to pursue an international agreement by which the provisions of the Protocol shall be applicable to all types of armed conflict;--Sweden has since long strived for explicit prohibition of the use of blinding laser which would risk causing permanent blindness to soldiers. Such an effect, in Sweden's view is contrary to the principle of international law prohibiting means and methods of warfare which cause unnecessary suffering."

#switzerland
Same declaration, mutatis mutandis , as the one made by Australia.

#united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland
''In relation to Protocol IV, the Government of the United Kingdom declare that their application of its provisions will not be limited to the situations set out in Article 1 of the 1980 Convention."

#united states of america
“It is the understanding of the United States of America with respect to Article 2 that any decision by any military commander, military personnel, or any other person responsible for planning, authorizing or executing military action shall only be judged on the basis of that person’s assessment of the information reasonably available to the person at the time the person planned, authorized orexecuted the action under review, and shall not be judged on the basis of information that comes to light after the action under review was taken.”

